[Polkadot Wiki Migration] Transfer section (#5)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: tutorials/transfers/index.md

To update the metadata of the Polkadot.Js Browser Extension, follow these steps:

1. Access the Polkadot.Js App interface and click on the **Settings** tab:

    ![Settings Tab](/images/tutorials/transfers/metadata-update/metadata-update-1.webp)

2. Click on the **Metadata** tab:

    ![Metadata Tab](/images/tutorials/transfers/metadata-update/metadata-update-2.webp)

3. If there are any updates available, click on the **Update metadata** button:

    ![Update Metadata Button](/images/tutorials/transfers/metadata-update/metadata-update-3.webp)

4. A pop-up window will appear to confirm the update. Click on the **Yes, I do this metadata update** button to allow the extension to update the metadata:

    ![Update Metadata Confirmation](/images/tutorials/transfers/metadata-update/metadata-update-4.webp)

Now that the metadata is updated, you can proceed with transferring and managing funds on the Polkadot network.

## Transfers

### Sending Funds

> Whether your account is in the Polkadot Browser Extension or created/added directly on the Polkadot-JS UI, you must use the Polkadot-JS UI interface to send funds or issue any extrinsic. The Polkadot extension is an account manager, not a wallet, requiring a UI to interact with.

Reviewer: This is just a way of doing it, you could also transfer funds directly using wallets' built-in features, but this is only true for the polkadot.js browser extension. I would remove `must` and mention that other methods exist

> Whether your account is in the Polkadot Browser Extension or created/added directly on the Polkadot-JS UI, you must use the Polkadot-JS UI interface to send funds or issue any extrinsic. The Polkadot extension is an account manager, not a wallet, requiring a UI to interact with.

Reviewer: Here, you are using `Polkadot-JS UI`, and in step 1 below, you are using `Polkadot.Js App interface`. We should standardize it

To send funds using the Polkadot.Js Browser Extension, follow these steps:

1. Using the Polkadot.Js App interface, click on the **Accounts** tab and select **Transfer** from the dropdown menu:

    ![Accounts Tab](/images/tutorials/transfers/sending-funds/sending-funds-1.webp)

2. Fill in the required fields:
      1. **send from account** - select the account from which you want to send funds
      2. **send to address** - enter the recipient's address
      3. **amount** - enter the amount of funds you want to send

>       4. **transfer with account keep-alive checks** - enable this option if you want to keep the account alive

Reviewer: Explain the case where the account would be removed or link to another place that explains it

Reviewer: Probably you can link to the Keep Alive Checks section

3. A pop-up window will appear to confirm the transfer. Click on the **Sign and Submit** button to authorize the transaction:

    ![Transfer Confirmation](/images/tutorials/transfers/sending-funds/sending-funds-3.webp)

4. To confirm that the transaction was successful, you can check the **Explorer** tab and search that the event **Transfer** has been emitted:

    ![Explorer Tab](/images/tutorials/transfers/sending-funds/sending-funds-4.webp)

### Extrinsics Verification

The Polkadot Browser Extension is the entry point to the Web 3.0 Polkadot ecosystem, allowing you to connect with various compatible apps and websites. Therefore, verifying your extrinsic before signing them is crucial, especially when engaging with a new site or app.

For further information on how to verify extrinsics, please refer to the [How Can I Verify What Extrinsic I'm Signing?](https://support.polkadot.network/support/solutions/articles/65000179161-how-can-i-verify-what-extrinsic-i-m-signing-){target=\_blank} guide.

### Keep Alive Checks

In Polkadot, there are two main ways to transfer funds from one account to another:

> - Transfer `keep-alive` - (the default option) will not allow you to send an amount that would allow the sending account to be removed because it falls below the existential deposit.
> - Transfer `allow-death` - will allow you to send tokens regardless of the consequences. If the balance drops below the existential deposit, your account will be reaped. You may not want to keep the account alive, for example, if you are moving all of your funds to a different address. To turn off the keep-alive check, please visit the [Error: 'balances.KeepAlive'](https://support.polkadot.network/support/solutions/articles/65000169248){target=\_blank} guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Transfer `keep-alive` - (the default option) will not allow you to send an amount that would allow the sending account to be removed because it falls below the existential deposit
- Transfer `allow-death` - will allow you to send tokens regardless of the consequences. If the balance drops below the existential deposit, your account will be reaped. You may not want to keep the account alive, for example, if you are moving all of your funds to a different address. To turn off the keep-alive check, please visit the [Error: 'balances.KeepAlive'](https://support.polkadot.network/support/solutions/articles/65000169248){target=\_blank} guide
```

### Vested Transfers

Vested transfers can be released on a linear schedule (linear vesting) or after a specific time period (cliff vesting). 

To perform a vested transfer, you need to follow these steps:

1.  Navigate to the Extrinsics section of the Polkadot.Js App interface:
       1. Click on the **Developer** tab

>        2. Select **Extrinsics** from the dropdown menu:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       2. Select **Extrinsics** from the dropdown menu
```

    ![Developer Tab](/images/tutorials/transfers/vested-transfers/vested-transfers-1.webp)

2. Access the **vesting** pallet and select the **vestedTransfer** function:
      1. Select the **account** from which you want to send the vested transfer
      2. Choose the **vesting** pallet from the list of pallets 

>       3. Select the **vestedTransfer** function from the list of functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      3. Select the **vestedTransfer** extrinsic from the list of functions
```

         - **startingBlock** - the block number when the funds will be released  
       3. Click on the **Submit Transaction** button to proceed 

    ![Vested Transfer Form](/images/tutorials/transfers/vested-transfers/vested-transfers-3.webp)

    !!! note
        The above image shows how to perform a cliff vesting transfer, since **locked** and **perBlock** are the same. If you want to perform a linear vesting transfer, you should calculate the **perBlock** value based on the total amount of funds and the duration of the vesting period. For example, if you want to release 100 DOT over a period of 10 blocks, the **perBlock** value should be 10 DOT.

4. After submitting the transaction, a pop-up window will appear to confirm the transfer. Click on the **Sign and Submit** button to authorize the transaction:

    ![Vested Transfer Confirmation](/images/tutorials/transfers/vested-transfers/vested-transfers-4.webp)

> 5. To confirm that the transaction was successful, you can navigate to the **Accounts** tab and check the **locked** balances of the receiver's account (if the **startingBlock** has not been reached yet) or the **vested** balances (if the **startingBlock** has been reached):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. To confirm that the transaction was successful, navigate to the **Accounts** tab and check the receiver's account. Look for **locked** balances if the starting block hasn't been reached yet or **vested** balances if it has.
```

    ![Accounts Tab - Locked Balances](/images/tutorials/transfers/vested-transfers/vested-transfers-5.webp)

#### Lazy Vesting

Vesting is lazy, meaning that someone must explicitly call an extrinsic to update the lock placed on an account.

> 

Reviewer: I would add before the list of extrinsics an introduction saying something like there is a set of extrinsics that allow you to perform this operation and are defined in the vesting pallet:
- `vest` - ...
- `vest_other` - ...

> - The `vest` extrinsic will update the lock that is placed on the caller.
> - The `vest_other` will update the lock on another "target" account's funds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `vest` extrinsic will update the lock that is placed on the caller
- The `vest_other` will update the lock on another "target" account's funds
```

> These extrinsics are exposed from the Vesting pallet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These extrinsics are exposed from the `vesting` pallet.
```

If you are using the Polkadot.Js UI, when there are DOT available to vest for an account, then you will have the ability to unlock DOT that has already vested from the Accounts page.

#### Calculating When Vesting Tokens Will Be Available

> You can check the status of your DOT vesting by reviewing your accounts, which will show when the vesting period ends. However, some DOT vesting involves "cliffs," where all the tokens are released simultaneously in a single block rather than gradually over time. In these cases, you'll need to directly query the chain state to determine when your tokens will be available, as the vesting period hasn’t technically begun yet—it will occur entirely in one future block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check the status of your DOT vesting by reviewing your accounts, which will show when the vesting period ends. However, some DOT vesting involves "cliffs", where all the tokens are released simultaneously in a single block rather than gradually over time. In these cases, you'll need to directly query the chain state to determine when your tokens will be available, as the vesting period hasn’t technically begun yet—it will occur entirely in one future block.
```

1. Navigate to the Chain State page on Polkadot.Js  
   ![Chain State Page](/images/tutorials/transfers/vested-transfers/vested-transfers-6.webp)
2. Query chain state:
      1. Select the `vesting` query state
      2. Select `vesting` from the list of modules
      3. Select the address you want to query
      4. Click on the **+** button to execute the query
    
    ![Query Chain State](/images/tutorials/transfers/vested-transfers/vested-transfers-7.webp)
    
3. Note that **startingBlock** indicates where the unlock starts and how much DOT is unlocked per block (**perBlock**)

    ![Query Chain State Result](/images/tutorials/transfers/vested-transfers/vested-transfers-8.webp)
 

> 4. To calculate when the vesting will be available in “human time", remember that there are approximately 14’400 blocks per day, and you can see the latest block on the Explorer page:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. To calculate when the vesting will be available in “human time", remember that there are approximately 14400 blocks per day, and you can see the latest block on the Explorer page:
```

>     For instance, this example shows that the vesting will start at block 22,400,500, and the current block is 22,359,749 (as shown on the Explorer page). The difference between these two blocks is 40,751 blocks. If you divide this number by 14,400, you will get the number of days until the vesting starts, which in this case is 2.83 days.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if we should use `,` in big numbers

### Batch Transfers

Batch transfers are balance transfers to multiple accounts executed by one account. To construct a batch transfer, you need to:

1. Navigate to the Extrinsics section of the Polkadot.Js App interface:
       1. Click on the **Developer** tab
       2. Select **Extrinsics** from the dropdown menu:

    ![Developer Tab](/images/tutorials/transfers/batch-transfers/batch-transfers-1.webp)

> 2. Access the **utility* pallet and select the *batch* function:
>       1. Choose the **utility** pallet from the list of pallets 
>       2. Select the **batch** function from the list of extrinsics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Access the **utility* pallet and select the *batch* extrinsic:
      1. Choose the **utility** pallet from the list of pallets 
      2. Select the **batch** extrinsic from the list of extrinsics
```

const info = await api.tx.balances.transfer(recipient, 123).paymentInfo(sender);

// Log relevant info, partialFee is Balance, estimated for current
console.log(`
  class=${info.class.toString()},
  weight=${info.weight.toString()},
  partialFee=${info.partialFee.toHuman()}
`);
```
## Existing Reference Errors

If you are trying to reap an account and receive an error like, `There is an existing reference count on the sender account. As such, the account cannot be reaped from the state`, so you have existing references to this account that must be removed before it can be reaped. References may still exist from:

- Bonded tokens (most likely)
- Unpurged session keys (if you were previously a validator)
- Token locks
- Existing recovery info
- Existing assets

### Bonded Tokens

If you have tokens that are bonded, you will need to unbond them before you can reap your account. Follow the instructions at [Unbonding and Rebonding](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-guides-nominator#bond-your-tokens){target=\_blank} to check if you have bonded tokens, stop nominating (if necessary) and unbond your tokens.

### Checking for Locks

> For further information about locks on your account or remove them, you can check out the [Learn How You Can Free Funds - Deep Dive into Polkadot's Locks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LHgY7ds_bZ0){target=_\blank} educational video and the [Why Can't I Transfer My DOT?](https://support.polkadot.network/support/solutions/articles/65000169437-why-can-t-i-transfer-tokens-){target=\_blank} guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further information about locks on your account or how to remove them, you can check out the [Learn How You Can Free Funds - Deep Dive into Polkadot's Locks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LHgY7ds_bZ0){target=_\blank} educational video and the [Why Can't I Transfer My DOT?](https://support.polkadot.network/support/solutions/articles/65000169437-why-can-t-i-transfer-tokens-){target=\_blank} guide.
```

### Purging Session Keys

If you used this account to set up a validator and you did not purge your keys before unbonding your tokens, you need to purge your keys. You can do this by seeing the [How to Stop Validating](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/maintain-guides-how-to-stop-validating){target=\_blank} page. This can also be checked by checking session.nextKeys in the chain state for an existing key.

> ### Existing Recovery Information

Reviewer: If it is not being used, maybe is not relevant to include it here

Author: What would you suggest? Adding a paragraph that dives deeper into it, or just a note as a disclaimer that mentions how interesting it could be for the chains that use this pallet?

I copied and pasted this section from the wiki

Currently, Polkadot does not use the [Recovery Pallet](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/tree/master/substrate/frame/recovery){target=_\blank}, so this is probably not the reason for your tokens having existing references.

> ### Existing Non-Native Assets

Reviewer: I don't think this guide is exclusive for Polkadot, so this is relevant for other chains that include the assets pallet

Author: I'm unsure how deep I should go into this topic for chains that actually implement the [Recovery Pallet](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/tree/master/substrate/frame/recovery) and the [Assets Pallet](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/tree/master/substrate/frame/assets). 

I was thinking of something like a small sentence that says, "If you need to gain access to their accounts if the private key or other authentication mechanism is lost, refer to pallet X (in case your chain implements that module, Polkadot doesn't)". Showcasing the whole Recovery mechanism through the recovery pallet might be a new tutorial—the same for the Assets Pallet.

Would you agree @0xLucca ?
